Contributing
============

Thank you for your interest in getting involved with the KUKA Robot
Learning Lab at KIT. On this page, you will find guidelines on how to
help the lab.

Use the lab, report issues and help other users
-----------------------------------------------

You are already helping us if you use the lab! We are still in the
early stages of the project and every feedback is valuable. You can
ask questions in the `forum <https://rll-forum.ipr.iar.kit.edu/>`_  or
help other users there.

If you notice a bug, you can open an issue on Github on the
`SDK's issue tracker <https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_sdk/issues>`_.
Or if your issue is with a specific project, you can also open your
ticket on the issue tracker of the respective project. Our projects
are hosted under the
`KITRobotics group <https://github.com/kitrobotics>`_ and prefaced
with :code:`rll_`.

Improving the documentation
---------------------------

If you notice any error or missing information in the documentation,
feel free to create a pull request with the fixes, see
:ref:`pull-requests`.

The documentation is created using `Sphinx
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/index.html>`_ and the source
files for the documentation can be found in the `SDK docs folder
<https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_sdk/tree/master/docs/general>`_.

The `docs README
<https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_sdk/blob/master/docs/general/README.md>`_
explains how the documentation can be built. The documentation is
written using `reStructuredText
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReStructuredText>`_.
`Here <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html>`_
is a great overview of the syntax. Sphinx has `its own reference
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html>`_
of the added extensions to the standard syntax.

Contributing source code
------------------------

Members and students at IAR-IPR contribute directly to the `IPR Gitlab
repos <https://gitlab.ipr.iar.kit.edu/rll>`_. They also have an IPR
account and can access the non-public repos. Their workflow is to fork
the needed repos and to make pull requests. And they use the issue
trackers in the IPR Gitlab.

External contributors are welcome to create pull requests for the
`Github repos <https://github.com/KITrobotics>`_. Please note that the
main development work happens in the IPR Gitlab repos and we do not
regularly sync the public repos on Github. Hence, it is possible that
the Github repos are outdated from time to time.

.. _style-guidelines:

Style guidelines
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We follow the `ROS C++ style guide
<http://wiki.ros.org/CppStyleGuide>`_ which in turn follows the
`Google C++ style guide
<https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html>`_. The `ROS Python
style guide <http://wiki.ros.org/PyStyleGuide>`_ is used for Python
code and it is based on the `standard Python coding conventions
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_.

Several linting tools are available to verify that your code does not
violate any of the coding conventions and some of the tools are even
able to fix your code automatically.

For C++, we are using `ClangFormat
<https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html>`_ and `clang-tidy
<https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/>`_. For Python, `flake8
<https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ and `pylint
<http://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ are used. We also started to
add `type hints <https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html>`_ to
our Python source code.

To install these tools, simply run:

.. code-block:: shell

   sudo apt install clang-tidy-9 clang-9 clang-format-6.0 python-pip
   pip install flake8 'pylint<2.0.0'

Configuration files for all these tools are provided in the `SDK
<https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_sdk>`_. You can symlink those to
the :code:`src` directory of your workspace to make sure that they are
always found when you run the tools in a repo or in a package
directory:

.. code-block:: shell

   cd ~/rll_ws/src
   ln -s  rll_sdk/.clang-format .
   ln -s  rll_sdk/.clang-tidy .
   ln -s  rll_sdk/.flake8 .

Pylint is not able to find configuration files in parent directories,
so its configuration needs to be directly linked to the home
directory:

.. code-block:: shell

    ln -s  ~/rll_ws/src/rll_sdk/.pylintrc ~/

To automatically format your C++ code, run ClangFormat in the
directory of the package you are currently working on:

.. code-block:: shell

   find . -name '*.h' -or -name '*.hpp' -or -name '*.cpp' | xargs clang-format-6.0 -i -style=file $1

The C++ code linter Clang-Tidy needs a package-specific command, e.g.:

.. code-block:: shell

   run-clang-tidy-9.py -p ~/rll_ws/build/rll_move -header-filter=rll_move/*

For every catkin package you want to check, you will need to adapt the build
path and the header filter. In this mode, Clang-Tidy will not touch
your code and it will only print all sorts of warnings and errors that
you should fix.

For some of its checks, Clang-Tidy is able to automatically fix your code,
but beware: Clang-Tidy is not always right and it may actually break
your code. You should definitely commit your code before you run
Clang-Tidy with the :code:`-fix` option like this:

.. code-block:: shell

   run-clang-tidy-9.py -fix -p ~/rll_ws/build/rll_move -header-filter=rll_move/* ~/rll_ws/src/rll_sdk/rll_move

To check your Python code with flake8 and pylint, run these commands
in the package directory:

.. code-block:: shell

   python -m flake8
   find * -iname "*.py" | xargs python -m pylint

Both tools will not change the code for you. You will need to apply
the necessary fixes manually.

.. _continuous-integration:

Continuous integration and tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Every RLL repository has a `Gitlab continuous integration pipeline
<https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/continuous-integration/>`_
with `ROS Industrial CI
<https://github.com/ros-industrial/industrial_ci>`_ configured and the
pipeline is executed for every Git push to an IPR Gitlab repository. We
do not yet have continuous integration configured for our Github repos.

The pipeline will try to build the code, run all available tests and
the linting tools described in :ref:`style-guidelines`. `catkin_lint
<https://fkie.github.io/catkin_lint/>`_ additionally runs a set of
checks on all :code:`package.xml` and :code:`CMakeLists.txt` files.

There is also a separate build with all warnings treated as errors to
ensure that all of the compiler warnings have been addressed and that
no warnings remain.

Tests are written using the `ROS testing framework
<http://wiki.ros.org/unittest>`_ which uses `Google Test
<http://wiki.ros.org/gtest>`_ for C++ and `unittest
<http://wiki.ros.org/unittest>`_ for Python. The rll_move package has
a `README
<https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_sdk/tree/master/rll_move/tests>`_
with some hints that be used as a reference for writing tests for
rll_sdk packages. The rll_stack has its own `test collection
<https://github.com/KITrobotics/rll_stack/tree/master/rll_test>`_.

Regardless if you add new functionality or fix bugs, please always
consider to extend the current set of tests for the respective
package. If the RLL package you are currently working on does not yet
have tests, be the first to add some!

Tests help us to quickly spot regressions and they help you to verify
that your changes work properly and that you did not break anything.

.. _pull-requests:

Pull requests and commits
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before a pull request can be merged, continuous integration needs to
pass without errors, see :ref:`continuous-integration`. Additionally,
please make sure that all commented code is removed. Complex code
section should have comments with explanations. If Todos are left, add
comments in the following format to the code to describe them:
:code:`TODO(your username): description`.

If you work on a larger issue that requires a big chunk of added or
refactored code, a work in progress pull request is very welcome. Then
you can get early feedback for your work and we get a better overview
of how you intend to solve the issue. For a work in progress pull
request, you create a regular pull request but you preface the title
with :code:`WIP:`. Then we know that your work is not yet finished and
that you might still add changes. When you think that the pull request
is ready to be merged, you simply remove the WIP status.

If possible, preface your Git commit title with the name of the
component or package you are changing, e.g. :code:`kinematics:`,
:code:`move iface:`, :code:`tests:`. Besides a commit title, please
also add a description to document your changes and explain your
approach if it is not straightforward. You can omit the commit
description if your changes are trivial.

The title and description of your pull request should be treated in
the same way. The description should summarize the changes of the pull
request and mention all open issues on the issue tracker which are
addressed by the pull request. If you have a clean commit structure on
your branch, then your branch will be merged directly. However, if
your branch contains some intermediate commits with fixes, your branch
will be squashed into a single commit before merging. In this case, it
is especially important that your pull request description provides a
complete summary and explanations, because this description will be
used for the squash commit message. 

Usually, you do not want to work on the master branch. Instead, you
should checkout a feature branch with a descriptive name, e.g. the
name of the feature or bug you are working on. You will use the same
feature branch for your pull request later on.

Before you create your feature branch from the master branch, make
sure that your master branch is up-to-date and contains the latest
changes from the upstream repo.

It can happen that the upstream repo gets updated while you already
work on your feature branch. You should try to get the latest changes
into your feature branch if they either directly modify the code you
are working on or if they could change the behavior of the testing
scenarios that you use for your feature or bugfix. The cleanest way to
get these changes into your branch is to do a rebase when pulling into
your feature branch:

.. code-block:: shell

   git pull -r upstream master

:code:`upstream` is the name of the remote you chose for the upstream
repo. To make sure that none of your work gets lost if something goes
wrong, you should push your latest changes before you do the
rebase. Afterwards, you will need to do a force push to update your
remote with your rebased branch.

If you notice an error in your latest commit, try to amend the commit
instead of adding a new commit with the fix. You can either add the
fixes with :code:`git add` and then running :code:`git commit
--amend`, or you can directly amend all new changes with :code:`git
commit -a --amend`. If you already pushed the latest commit, you will
need to do a force push to overwrite the branch on your remote.

Generally, when in doubt, Git push to avoid loosing any of your work
due to false Git operations or other circumstances! 
